Please answer the below core-java Questions:

    What is programing language?
What is programming language is such a vague question, is it even possible to answer that question in
one complete sentence? Everyone has their own view on what is a programming language.
There are so many concept to this, but to put a straight deffination to it is really difficult. But,
if I have to state it I would say its language that helps you interact with the computer
 which helps you perform action based on the instruction that provided  by the user. Its a
language of wonder! But one thing we must not forget is that java is a strongly typed language
though!

    What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Java Development Kit contain many thing, such as the
JavaCompiler
jConsole
Jdbc
Debugger
RunTime Interpretor
API source code,
What is IDE?
Intergrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
-IntelliJ, Eclipse, Netbeans

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Editor-->Source Code--->JavaCompiler(javac) -->Bytecodes --> JVM-->Operating System
In the editor/ IDE is where our codes are written, and saved.
JavaCompiler is where it used to compile the class file.
ByteCodes contains our class which is used to passed on the
Java Virtual Machine which uses the java loaders and reads the bytecodes to pass it
on the and translate it into the OP for us to the read the output of it.

what is class?
Blueprint of our object

What is object?
Is the instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
Main method

Why main is static?
so when a method that is declared static is invoked without
needing an instance of its parent class to be created.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
The object class, since its stored in the java language.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
The path points to the location of the jre i.e. the java binary files such as the jvm
and necessary libraries. The classpath points to the classes you developed so that the
jvm can find them and load them when you run your product.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Interface- In interface we cannot declare a body. All methods in Interface are abstract,
 but it can have multiple methods in abstract.
Abstract class- In abstract class we have to implement the body. Abstract class can
have non abstract methods. It can also have abstract method which is not implemented.

what is Access Specifier?
It gives us access to the the class and there are three private, public and protected.


What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
Encapsulation- Which is data hiding
Polymorphism- The abality to take on many form, and there are two types Overloading and Overriding.
Inhertiance- This allows us to take properties from one class to another.
Abstraction- Implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
Java language package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
API are all the classes are part of the JDK.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Yes, but only through interface.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Method overloading is can have the same name but different parameters and it happens during
compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
When we have an error occurs during exception of the program and the normal flow of the program is interrupted.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
The static word can be used to attach a Variable or Method to a Class.
The variable or Method that are marked static belong to the Class rather than to any particular instance.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
Once the final variable its initialized it can not be changed, since its constant.

What is final, finally and finalize?
Final is a keyword and its used for restrictions on class, method and variable, it can't inherited, overridden and value can't changed.
Finally is used whether exception is handled or not.
Finalize is just the clean up process before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor?
To inttialize an object, and if the class doesn't have a constructor it will take the default one,
 but it can take many constructor.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
Yes!

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
default

What is "this" keyword in java ?
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?

What is JVM stand for ?
Java Virtual Machine

Is JVM platform independent?
What version of java are you using?
1.8
What is JAR stand for?

JAR is your java library, where you have all your API stored
is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Jdk is for development purpose and it is include execution environment also. But jvm is purely
run time environment hence u will not be able to compile source file using jvm.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
JRE is java runtime environment,  simple way to state the difference would be
JRE is the container and JVM is the content in it.
JVM  uses all the libraries and other supporting files from the JRE to run the programs.

What is compile time and run time?
When an application is running, it is called runtime.
The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program,
this is referred to as compile time.

What is heap?
Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated.

How java manage it's memory?
ava objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up
and may increase or decrease

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
String is immutable, meaning can not be changed.
StringBuffer is mutable meaning the value of the object can be changed.
StringBuilder its faster and its used preferable over StringBuffer, it safety thread is needed.

What is Singleton class?
Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor

What is Serialization and Deserialization?


when to use transient variable in java?

Difference between while and do..while loop?
With while loop the condition is evaluated at the start, while do while loop with run at least once.

What is Enum?
It's a pre-defined constant.
Has to be in capital letters

What is Iterator?
Are used in collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
don't they both take about the same amount of memory?

Why is String Immutable in Java?
Since string is object that object can not be changed in the memory

What is constructor chaining in Java?
he process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?

What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time, its used during runtime from the JRE to improve runtime.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Garbage Collection. Garbage collection is the process of
freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation of new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No, it only happens when JVM get the triggers that it would be part of garbage collection.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application wheare as
stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
The name reflection is used to describe code which is able to inspect other code in the same system

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent
execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum utilization of CPU.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.
Java Synchronization is better option where we want to allow only one thread to access the shared resource.

What is Framework?
framework is a real or conceptual structure intended
to serve as a support or guide for the building of something that expands the structure into something useful.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
testNG, junit

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Everything are the same except the dependency test.

What are the dependencies for this project?

what is dependency injection in java?


What is static binding and dynamic binding?
When type of the object is determined at compiled time(by the compiler), it is known as static binding.
When type of the object is determined at run-time, it is known as dynamic binding.






